

Lesson 8 Demo 2
Performing CRUD Operation on Containers

Steps to be followed:
1.	Pulling a Docker image
2.	Creating a new container
3.	Stopping the container
4.	Listing all the containers
5.	Deleting the container
6.	Removing the image

Step 1: Pulling a Docker image
1.1 Open the terminal and pull an image using the command:
sudo docker pull nginx




1.2 List all the docker images to check the newly pulled nginx image:
sudo docker images


Step 2: Creating a new container
  2.1 Create a new container from the nginx image:
sudo docker run -dt -p 80:80 nginx

2.2 List all the running containers to check the newly created container. You can find 	various details like port of container, it’s time of creation and ID.
sudo docker ps

Step 3: Stopping the container
3.1 Use the following command to stop the running container. (You can also us the 	container ID to stop the container: sudo docker stop CONTAINER_ID)
sudo docker stop CONTAINER_NAME


3.2 Use the following command to list all the running containers and verify if the container 	has stopped running:
sudo docker ps


3.3 You can start the container again and check the running containers. (You can also us the 	container ID to start the container: sudo docker start CONTAINER_ID)
sudo docker start CONTAINER_NAME
sudo docker ps


3.4 To start the container in interactive mode, use the –i and –t options. 
	sudo docker run -it –name=Test_1 ubuntu
Step 4: Listing all the containers
4.1 Use the below command to list all the containers started and the once which are stopped:
sudo docker ps -a

4.2 To list the containers by their ID, use the below command
                sudo docker ps -aq
               
               




You can see the containers with ID are listed.

4.3 To list the total file size of each container, use the below command:
 sudo docker ps -s

4.4 To list the latest created containers, use the following command:
         sudo docker ps -l

Step 5: Deleting the container
5.1 Stop the running container and remove it using the following commands:
sudo docker stop CONTAINER_NAME
sudo docker container rm CONTAINER_NAME






Step 6: Removing the image
6.1 Remove the image using the command:
	sudo docker image rm nginx



